Anti-Ragging Cell (2024-25)

Anti-Ragging Cell : The Anti- Ragging Cell comprising the Principal as the Chairman and senior faculty as the other members takes ample measures to prevent ragging on the campus. The Cell sets up banners and also anti-ragging legal notifications on the College Notice Boards. The faculty orients the senior students into understanding the ethos of the college and thereby positively conditions them to proactively connect to the freshers. Strict anti-ragging instructions are given to the students through handbook and at the time of admission. A number of Anti-Ragging Hoardings have been displayed on the campus and inside the main building.  On the day of Induction Meet and Orientation Sessions organized for newly admitted students the Principal and Resource Persons alerts the students about laws against ragging. Ragging is strictly prohibited on the campus and no serious instances of ragging have been reported on the campus so far.

The composition of Anti-Ragging Cell for Academic Session 2024-25 is as follows :

Sl. No.	Name / Mobile No.	Department
01	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal, Patron
02	Dr. Anjum Fatima	HoD, Chemistry, Nodal Officer
03	Dr. Namita Kumari	Department of Botany
04	Dr. Bandana Singh	Dept. of Home Science
05	Dr. Archana Katiyar	HoD, Psychology
08	Dr. Telani Meena Horo	Dept. of Political Science
09	Ms. Namrata	Department of Psychology
10	Ms. Nidhi Singh	Department of Psychology
12	Dr. Madhu Kumari Gupta	HoD, Philosophy
13	Ms. Sonu Rani	HoD, Statistics
14	General Secretary	Students 'Representative
15	Asst. General Secretary	Students' Representative
16	Common Room Secretary	Students' Representative

---

CORPORATE INTERACTION CELL

The composition of Corporate Interaction Cell for Academic Session 2024-25 is as follows :

Sl. No	Name / Mobile No.	Department
2	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal, Patron
3	Dr. Shyam Deo Yadav	Bursar, Coordinator, B.Com.  
4	Dr. Surendra Kr. Prasad	Coordinator, BBA Cell Convener
5	Mr. Manoj Kumar Sinha Member, IQAC, MMC	Director, Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship Development, Patna
6	Dr. Pushpa Sinha	HoD, Economics
7	Dr. Binay Kr. Bimal	Coordinator,BSW
8	Dr. Manish Kr. Verma	Coordinator, PGDCA Coordinator- IT Cell
9	Dr. Sweta Sharan	Coordinator, Incubation Centre
10	Dr. Binay Kumar	Coordinator, BCA
11	Mr. Nilabh Keshav Coordinator, CII, Patna	Member
11	Mr. Ravi Ranjan Mishra State Head, MEDHA	Guest Member
12	Ms. Dimple Student Relationship Manager, MEDHA	Guest Member
13	General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students 'Representative
14	Asst. General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
15	Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
16	Asst. Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative

---

ENVIRONMENTAL CELL

The composition of Environment Cell for Academic Session 2024-25 is as follows :

Sl. No.	Name	Department / Designation
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal, Patron
2	Dr. Shyam Deo Yadav	Bursar, Dept. of Chemistry
3	Dr. Pushpanjali Khare	HoD, Botany
4	Dr. Surendra Kumar Prasad	Dept. of Botany Convener
5	Dr. Amrita Prasad	Dept. of Political Science
6	Dr. Sweta Sharan	Dept. of Economics
7	Dr. Manish Kumar Verma	HoD, Physics
8	Ms. Ranjana Yadav	Dept. of Philosophy
9	Dr. Khushboo	Dept. of English
10	Dr. Rishu Raj	Dept. of Political Science
11	Dr. Shipra Prabha	Dept. of Hindi
12	Dr. SohailAnwer	Dept. of Urdu
13	General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
14	Asst. General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
15	Environmental & Natural Resources Secretary	Students' Representative
16	Sanitation Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
17	Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  

---

EK BHARAT SHERESHTA BHARAT CELL

India is a unique nation, whose fabric has been woven by diverse linguistic, cultural and religious threads, held together into a composite national identity by a rich history of cultural evolution, coupled with a freedom struggle that was built around the tenets of non-violence and justice.
In an era that facilitates mobility and outreach, it is important to establish cultural exchanges between people of different regions, as a means to further human bonding and a common approach to nation-building. Mutual understanding and trust are the foundations of India's strength and all citizens should feel culturally integrated in all corners of India.
The idea of a sustained and structured cultural connect between people of different regions was mooted by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi during the Rashtriya Ekta Divas held on 31st October, 2015, to commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The Prime Minister propounded that cultural diversity is a joy that ought to be celebrated through mutual interaction and reciprocity between people of different States and UTs so that a common spirit of understanding resonates throughout the country.
Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Programme aims to enhance interaction and promote mutual understanding between people of different states/UTs through the concept of state/UT pairing. The states carry out activities to promote a sustained and structured cultural connect in the areas of language learning, culture, traditions, music, tourism, cuisine, sports and sharing of best practices etc.
With reference to the F.No.11018/02/2019-EBSB (Pt.) dated 21st May, 2020 received from RUSA / SHEC the following faculty members and students have been selected as member of ESEB for the Academic Year 2020-21.

Sl. No.	Name	Department / Designation
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal, Patron
2	Dr. Khushboo	Dept. of English
3	Dr. Rishu Raj	Dept. of Political Science
4	Dr. Shipra Prabha	Dept. of Hindi Convener
5	Dr. SohailAnwer	Dept. of Urdu
6	General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
7	Asst. General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
8	Environmental & Natural Resources Secretary	Students' Representative
9	Sanitation Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
10	Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
11	All Class Representatives (Part II, Part II & Part I of all Honours Subjects)	Ex-officio Members Students' Representatives

---

Composition of IT Cell for the session 2024-25

Sl. No.	Name	Department / Designation
01.	Dr. Manish Verma	Member, Coordinator, PGDCA
02.	Dr. Binay Kumar	Member Coordinator, BCA
03.	Dr. Namrata	Member Assistant Professor,Psychology
04.	Dr. Madhu Kumari Gupta	Member Assistant Professor, Chemistry
05	Dr. Shipra Prabha	Coordinator, I.T Cell Assistant Professor, Hindi

---

INTERNAL COMPLIANT CELL (ICC)

INTRODUCTION

Magadh Mahila College is committed to uphold the safety, security and dignity of all college family members on the campus under Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India,right to life and to live with dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution and right to privacy in any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business which includes a right to safe environment free from sexual harassment.
In compliance with the Supreme Court Judgement and Guidelines issued in 1997 to provide for effective enforcement of basic human rights of gender equality and guarantee against sexual harassment and abuse, particularly against sexual harassment at workplace the UGC has issued circular since 1998 and insisting the enactment of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal Act -Sexual Harassment Act in April 2013) to all the universities, advising them to establish a permanent cell / committee and to frame guidelines to combat sexual harassment and any kind of violence issues against women and ragging issues at the College.
As per the guidelines of Supreme Court and UGC an Internal Complaints Cell (ICC) / Sexual Harassment Cell (SHC) at MMC has been established to provide a healthy and congenial environment to all students and staff on the campus.
In view of the Act the Cell addresses all kind of students' complaints including the issues of sexual harassments and also alerts the students on the legal implications. The Cell on the campus conducts awareness programmes, guest lectures, camps to orient the students on how to be alert to the threats of sexual harassment; the legal recourse available on the eve of abuses, mental harassment and sexual harassment and the ways to defend themselves under Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment of Women Employees and Students in Higher Educational Institutions Regulations, 2015.

OBJECTIVES

The objectives of the MMC, ICCis to deal with gender sensitisation and gender-based violence etc. As per the direction of University Grants Commission (UGC), it is mandatory to interact with the students and make them aware of the functioning of the committee through the ICC along with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and The Criminal Law(Amendment) Act, 2013 (Nirbhaya Act). It states under Section 19 of the Act that every employer must provide a safe working environment, organize regular workshops and awareness programs and display order constituting the Internal Complaints Committee at a conspicuous place. ICC takes consistent action for prevention, prohibition and redressal of complaints received regarding sexual harassment and gender discrimination of students on the campus and women personnel at the workplace. It recommends to the management to lay down procedures for the prohibition, resolution, settlement and prosecution of acts of discrimination and sexual harassment, by the students and the employees.
It deals with cases of abuses, discrimination, violence and sexual harassment against women, in a time bound manner, aiming at ensuring support services to the victimized and termination of the harassment. The Cell members suggests appropriate punitive action against the guilty party to the College administration. Grievances pertaining to students are redressed by the Cell, which comprises Principal, faculty members and students' representatives. It addresses the grievances of students and gives a patience hearing to the disputes of the students. Every fortnight, the suggestions / complaints received from the Students' Suggestions Boxes are collected and reviewed by the Cell members under the supervision of the Principal and necessary action is taken immediately.Details of all members of the Cellhave been displayed onCollege Website.

The composition of Internal Compliant Cell for Session-2024-25 is as follows :

Sl. No.	Name	Designation/ Department
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Chairperson Principal
2	Dr. Punam Kumari	Coordinator IQAC HoD, Home Science
3	Ms.  Namrata	Member Dept. of Psychology
4	Dr. Khushboo	Member Dept. of English
5	Dr. Shipra Prabha	Member Dept. of Hindi
6	General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
7	Asst. General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
8	Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
9	Asst. Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative

---

SEXUAL HARASSMENT CELL

The Supreme Court of India defined Sexual Harassment as unwelcome sexuality determined behaviour, sexuality-oriented remarks, demand or request for sexual favours, showing pornography or use of electronic media etc.
In compliance with the Supreme Court guidelines and the University Grant Commission (UGC) aSexual Harassment Cell (SHC) at MMC has been established to provide a healthy and safe environment to all students and staff on the campus. The Sexual Harassment Cell of the College addresses the issues of sexual harassments and also alerts the students on the legal implications. The Supreme Court which regards sexual harassment as a violation of human rights and as form systematic discrimination against women has issued guidelines to prevent, as well as punish the perpetrators of sexual harassment cases.
The Cell on the campus conducts awareness programmes, guest lectures, camps to orient the students on how to be alert to the threats of sexual harassment; and the ways to defend themselves. However, there have been no reported incidents of sexual harassment on the campus.

The composition of Sexual Harassment Cell for Academic Session 2024-25 is as follows :

Sl. No.	Name	Department
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal, Patron
2	Dr. Anjum Fatima	HoD, Chemistry
3	Dr. Bandana Singh	Dept. of Home Science Convener 
4	Dr. Punam Kumari	Dept. of Home Science Coordinator, IQAC
5	Dr. Pushpanjali Khare	HoD, Botany
6	Dr. Archana Katiyar	HoD, Psychology
7	Ms. Namrata	Dept. of Psychology
8	Dr. Rishu Raj	Dept. of Political Science
9	Dr. Shipra Prabha	Dept. of Hindi
10	General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
11	Asst. General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  
12	Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative  

ATTENTION : If any student needs to discuss any type of problem, they may contact the Convener in the Centre directly CONSULTATION : Parents, Family Members, Friends, Faculty and Staff members concerned to the affected students related to their problems about physical- mental health, education, protection and effectiveness, may contact to the Convener at the Centre directly

REGULAR HOURS OF SERVICE

Counselling Hours :   Monday through Friday 12 Noon to 2.30.PM.

---

INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE CELL (IQAC)

INTRODUCTION

In pursuance of the National Action Plan of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), Bangalore, for performance evaluation, assessment and accreditation and quality up-gradation of institutions of higher education, the College establish an Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) as a post-accreditation quality sustenance measure.The IQAC is the central quality monitoring body of MMC.
Since quality enhancement is a continuous process, the IQAC of the Collegeis work towards realizing the goals of quality enhancement and sustenance. The prime task of the IQAC is to develop a system for conscious, consistent and catalytic improvement in the performance of institutions. The IQAC hasmake a significant and meaningful contribution in the post-accreditation phase of institutions. Through the year the IQAC has channelize the efforts and measures of the institution towards academic excellence. The IQAC, MMChas specifically focus on the creation of an institution-wide synergy imbibing the constituent efforts and feedback of the stakeholders viz. the teaching and non-teaching staff, the students, alumnae,parents and others to generate quality sustenance and enhancement on the areas as envisaged by NAAC-Curricular Development, Teaching and Learning, Research, Extension and Extension, Infrastructure and Learning Resources, Student Support and Progression, Governance, Leadership and Management and Innovation and promotion of Best Practices.
The IQAC is a cell meant for creating, maintaining and enhancing qualityin all spheres in the College for overall student support and progression. It functions under the Chairmanship of Principal and comprises senior faculty members, representative from the local community and students' representative. Its aim is to develop and maintain a system to promote academic and administrative excellence. The College facilitated regular meetings of IQAC and ensured that the IQAC is continuously engaged in promoting the self-evaluation of the Institution. For academic and administrative quality assurance, various activities have been planned. At the beginning of each Academic Session, IQAC formulates objectives for quality improvement. The IQAC is authorized to monitor the preparation of the AQARs and to make suggestions for quality enhancement. To meet this end, the IQAC holds meeting on a regular basis. Students' mentoring, support and progression, opening of new programmes, upgradation of library, laboratories, classrooms, teaching techniques, infrastructure and increasing the effective functioning of all systems are some of the major concerns of the IQAC

The composition of Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) for Academic Session – 2024-25 is as follows :

Sl No.	Name	Designation
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal-cum-Chairperson
2	Dr. Anjum Fatma Teacher Representative	University Professor HoD, Chemistry
3	Dr. Bandana Singh Teacher Presentative	University Professor Dept. of Home Science
4	Dr. Santosh Kumar Teacher Representative	Associate Professor, Physics College of Commerce,
5	Dr. Shivesh Ranjan (Administrative Officer)	OSD Education Department State Coordinator, RUSA
6	Mr. Manoj Kumar Sinha Management	Director, Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship Development
7	Padamshree Dr. Usha Kiran Khan, Alumna	Eminent Litterateur (Hindi –Maithili) and Historian
8	Prof. (Dr.) Renu Ranjan Entrepreneur & Alumna	 HoD, Sociology (Retd.) Magadh Mahila College, PU
9	Dr. RatnaPurkayastha Stakeholder& Alumna	Programme Director Doordarshan, Chennai
10	Dr. Rajan Sinha Employers	Director, Prof. G P Sinha Centre for Disaster Management and Rural Development, Patna
11	Dr. Abha Sinha Local Society	Master Trainer, Madhubani Printing Certificate Course, MMC
12	Dr. Punam Kumari Coordinator, IQAC	Associate Professor Dept. of Home Science, MMC
13	Dr. Pushpanjali Khare Teacher Representative	Assistant Professor HoD, Botany
14	General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
15	Asst. General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative

---

STUDENTS' GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL CELL (SGRC)

Grievances pertaining to students are redressed by the Grievance Redressal Cell which comprises Principal, Senior faculty members and Students' representatives. The Cell addresses the grievances of students and gives a patient hearing to the disputes of the students. Every fortnight, the suggestions / complaints received from the Students' Suggestions Boxes are collected and reviewed by the members of SQAC under the supervision of the Principal and members of Feedback Analysis Committee and necessary action is taken immediately. Grievances pertaining largely to amenities, campus discipline, teaching-learning, college timings, attendance, library and staff are redressed by the Cell and grievances pertaining to university examinations are routed to the Controller of Examinations, Patna University

The composition of Students' Grievance Redressal Cell for Academic Session 2024-25 is as follows :

Sl. No.	Name / Mobile No.	Designation/Department  
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal, Patron
2	Dr. Shyam Deo Yadav	Bursar, Member Coordinator-B.Com.
3	Dr. Anjum Fatima	HoD, Chemistry, Convener
4	Dr. Bandana Singh	Member Home Science
5	Dr. Punam Kumari	Coordinator, IQAC, MMC Dept. of Home Science
6	Dr. Archana Katiyar	 HoD, Psychology
7	Ms. Namrata	Member Dept. of Psychology
8	Dr. Surendra Kr. Prasad	Member Coordinator BBA
9	Dr. Rishu Raj	Member Dept. of Political Science
10	Dr. Shipra Prabha	Dept. of Hindi
11	General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
12	Asst. General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
13	Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
14	Asst. Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative

---

STAFF AND TEACHERS' GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL CELL (STGRC)

The composition of Staff & Teachers' Grievance Redressal Cell for Academic Session 2024-25 is as follows:

Sl. No.	Name	Department
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal, Patron
2	Dr. Shyam Deo Yadav	Coordinator-B.Com./ Bursar
3	Dr. Anjum Fatima	HoD, Chemistry
4	Dr. Bandana Singh	Dept. of Home Science
5	Dr. Punam Kumari Coordinator, IQAC, MMC	Dept. of Home Science
6	Dr. Archana Katiyar	Superintendent- Hostel-II
7	Dr. Telani Meena Horo	HoD, Political Science
8	Dr. Binay Kumar Bimal	HoD, Sociology
9	Dr. Surendra Kr.  Prasad	Coordinator –BBA
10	Ms. Namrata	Dept. of Psychology
11	Mr. Ravi Prakash	Accountant
12	Mr. Arun Kumar	Store Keeper

---

RURAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT CELL (REDC)

As directed by Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Government of India,the Magadh Mahila College, a constituent unit of Patna University, Patna has constituted a Rural Entrepreneurship Development Cell on the Campus. The College has formed a Team consisting of Faculty Leaders for handling wings of Training and Placement, Entrepreneurship, Rural Engagement, Technology and Personality Development with the Mission of inculcating entrepreneurship among students.

The composition of Rural Entrepreneurship Development Cell for Academic Session 2024-25 is as follows :

Sl. No.	Name / Mobile No.	Department  
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal, Patron
2	Dr. Surendra Kr. Prasad Dept. of Botany	Coordinator (Training and Placement Wing)
3	Dr. Sweta Sharan Dept. of Economics	Coordinator (Entrepreneurship Wing)
4	Dr. Shipra Prabha Dept. of Hindi	Coordinator (Rural Engagement Wing)
5	Dr. Manish Kumar Verma Head, Dept. of Physics,	Coordinator (Technology Wing)
6	Dr. Khushboo Dept. of English	Coordinator (Personality Development Wing)
7	Dr. Punam Kumari HoD, Home Science	Coordinator IQAC, MMC
8	Mr. Manoj Kumar Sinha MD,IIED, Patna	Member IQAC, MMC Distinguished Guest Member
9	Mr. Pramod Kumar Karn COO, Atal Incubation Centre Bihar Vidyapeeth, Patna	Distinguished Guest Member
10	Ms. Usha Jha President, Mahila Udyog Sangh	Distinguished Guest Member
11	Mr. Nilabh Keshav Coordinator, CII, Patna	Distinguished Guest Member
12	Ms. Kalpana Kumari President, Women Entrepreneurs Cooperative Society (WECS)	Distinguished Guest Member
13	Mr. Ravi Ranjan Mishra State Head, MEDHA	Distinguished Guest Member (MEDHA)
14	Ms. Dimple (MEDHA) Student Relationship Manager,	Guest Faculty MEDHA
15	General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students 'Representative
16	Asst. General Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
17	Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative
18.	Asst. Common Room Secretary Ex-officio Member	Students' Representative

---

PLACEMENT CELL

The Placement Cell of Magadh Mahila College is a largely student-driven, professional body incorporated for facilitating recruitment of best minds by global corporates. The College has a vigilant 'Placement Cell', which arranges campus interviews, guest lectures and career counselling sessions to help the student to explore job opportunities in different industries through campus recruitment. Career guidance is provided to the students about various facets of interview techniques. Experts in the field of career counselling are invited to provide guidelines to aspiring job seekers. The college Placement Cell takes the responsibility of placing the students in reputed companies. All willing students are offered Pre-placement training and made employable. When recruiters visit the college for campus placements, the Placement Cell uses this opportunity to find out about the market trends and corporate expectations. Feedback on the performance of our graduates is taken from their employers, so as to assess and address the gaps that need to be filled in order to optimize students' employability. Feedback from the employers also helps in identifying relevant skill and topics to be included in the Pre- placement training sessions.
The Cell works, not just with the aim of helping students in each batch secure jobs but also to equip them with industry-specific knowledge. Over the years, the Placement Cell has experienced the visit of leading corporates, and renowned companies catering not only to placements but also to fellowships and internships. The Placement Cell of MMC works towards maximizing student welfare and helping each student attain her goal.

PLACEMENT CELL ACTIVITY AT MMC

ADMINISTRATION

Chairperson : Principal

Core Placement Team :

Dr. Surendra Kumar Prasad, Associate Professor, Botany, Coordinator, Placement Cell

Dr. Shyam Deo Yadav, Associate Professor, Chemistry Coordinator- B.Com., Member, Placement Cell

Dr. Khushboo, Assistant Professor, English Member, Placement Cell

Dr. Sweta Sharan, Coordinator, Incubation Centre, Member, Placement Cell

Dr. Namrata, Assistant Professor, Psychology Member, Placement Cell

Dr. Binay Kumar, Assistant Professor, Mathematics Coordinator- BCA, Member, Placement Cell

Student Members :

General Secretary, Students' Cabinet (Ex-officio Member)

Assistant General Secretary, Students' Cabinet

Treasure, Students' Cabinet (Ex-officio Member)

Common Room Secretary, Students' Cabinet (Ex-officio Member)

Secretary, Science and IT Society, Students' Cabinet (Ex-officio Member)

To recruit talent from MMC, companies can register anytime on our official website-placementcell.mmc. edu https://www.placementcell.mmc.edu
To recruit talent from MMC, kindly drop an email at placementcell@mmc.pu.ac.in

---

STUDENT QUALITY ASSURANCE CELL (SQAC)

About the SQAC, MMC

Students are the future hope of country and society. Students' life is formative period of human life. In this period, the character of student is built. Every student should try her best to make the best use of her student life.In this regard,to have a passion and clear vision for better future and to make better students and citizens, Students Quality Assurance Cell isworking in our college.
The Student Quality Assurance Cellof MMC comprising Principal, IQAC Coordinator and Students'Representatives to evaluates, monitors and finds strategies to proactively address student related matters like- facilities, maintenance, discipline etc.It works sincerely for overall quality development of students. The Cell meets frequently to discussvarious academic and other student related issues. The Cell members take student grievances to the notice of the Principal, Coordinator and Heads of the Departments and plays a proactive role in resolving the general disciplinary issues among the students, and also in maintaining the culture and discipline on the campus. Members of the SQAC identify the student volunteers from different classes to form an organizing committee to conduct programmes like- seminars, guest lectures, workshops, cultural fest, tech fest etc. They play an active role in communicating important information to all the students and render their services to various departmental club activities. The Cell in coordination with the committee members organizes events like Induction Meet, Teachers Day, Freshet's Day , Farewell Day, College Day, SawanMahotsava, Garba Dance Competition, Winter Fest, Tech Fest etc. College provides necessary funds for Cell initiatives. Through Student Mentoring and Support beyond classroom support to equip the students with right knowledge, attitude and skill. Students' Feedback, Guidance and Counselling Centre, Placement Cell, The Athletic Society, Students' Central Society and Sahodara Society, Language Lab,German Language Proficiency Course, Smart Classes for Smart Generation, Short term 45days Certificate Course in Computer Applications (CCCA) Special Coaching, Publication of Student News Bulletin Study Tours,Multi-Dimensional Personality Grooming Approach of the college.,Activities/contributions of the alumnae,Alumnae Feedback, Parent-Teacher Meet, Parent-Teacher Association, Health Care Facilities Physical Facilities for Differently-Abled, Academic Support and Incubation Centre with the mission to 'facilitate fertile platform to develop entrepreneurs from its talent pool , the college has done to improve the quality of the students so that they can face the world successfully.We do Peer and self-assessment as an essential aspect of for the assessment of the quality of our students. Peer assessment involves students reflecting on the work of their peers, against success criteria related to a learning goal, and providing constructive feedback whereas in Self-assessment, it involves students applying success criteria related to a learning goal, reflecting on their efforts, identifying improvements and adjusting the 'quality' of their work. Meaningful peer and student self-assessment have the potential to positively contribute to student learning and achievement.
We're a risk-based regulator. As such, our assessment and monitoring activities are targeted at providers who represent a higher risk to students and their outcomes

The composition of Student Quality Assurance (SQAC) Cell for Academic Session 2024-25 is as follows:

SL. NO.	NAME	DESIGNATION
1	Prof. (Dr.) Namita Kumari	Principal / Patron Faculty Member
2	Dr. Punam Kumari HoD, Home Science	Coordinator, IQAC Faculty Member
3	Dr. Khushboo Dept. of English	Coordinator SQAC Faculty Member
4	Dr. Shipra Prabha Dept. of Hindi	Coordinator, Hindi Language Centre Faculty Member

Students' Representatives:

ROLL NO	HONS/YEAR	HOUSE
Rashmi Pandey Coordinator –SQAC	33	BCA-II	JAGRITI
Vidushi Roy	69	BA(English)-II	MAITRI
Jyotsna	36	BA(English)-I	PRAGATI
Huma Ghazala	23	BA(Urdu)-II	PRAGATI
Ayesha Khanam	90	BA(Urdu)-I	MAITRI
Uravashi Kashyap	357	BA(Home Science)-II	JAGRITI
Mansi Singh	372	BA(Home Science)-I	PRAGATI
Aakansha Raj	11	BA(Hindi)-II	PRAGATI
Mitali	11	BA(Hindi)-I	SAMRIDHI
Kalpana Kumari	418	BA(History)-II	MAITRI
Mansi Jha	216	BA(History)-I	JAGRITI
ShadiyaAlam	180	BA(Political Science)-II	MAITRI
Shalini Roy	450	BA(Political Science)-I	JAGRITI
Supriya Kumari	327	BA(Economics)-II	JAGRITI
Vidushi Shree	183	BA(Economics)-I	MAITRI
Swati	214	BA(Sociology)-II	SAMRIDHI
Mansi	278	BA(Sociology)-I	PRAGATI
Kainat	267	BA(Psychology)-II	SAMRIDHI
Farah Shagufta	324	BA(Psychology)-I	JAGRITI
Abha Kumari	372	BA(Philosophy)-II	SAMRIDHI
Pallavi Ranjan	111	BA(Philosophy)-I	MAITRI
SinfJawaid	152	B.Sc. (Maths)-II	SAMRIDHI
Surbhi Singh	164	B.Sc. (Maths)-I	SAMRIDHI
Alisha Kumari	163	B.Sc. (Physics)-II	PRAGATI
Hemlata	170	B.Sc. (Physics)-I	MAITRI
Richa Raj	80	B.Sc. (Chemistry)-II	SAMRIDHI
Nisha Kumari	98	B.Sc. (Chemistry)-I	MAITRI
Nistha Kant Deo	11	B.Sc. (Botany)-II	SAMRIDHI
Sugandha Priya	44	B.Sc. (Botany)-I	SAMRIDHI
Aditi Priya	210	B.Sc. (Zoology)-II	PRAGATI
Anushka Raj	221	B.Sc. (Zoology)-I	PRAGATI
Mitushi Priya	193	B.Sc. (Statistics)-II	JAGRITI
Taskin Anwar	203	B.Sc. (Statistics)-I	SAMRIDHI
Agrima Raj	03	BSW-II	PRAGATI
Priya Kumari	02	BSW-I	MAITRI
Abida Shahnaz	02	BCA-II	MAITRI
Sweta Kumari	63	BCA-I	PRAGATI
Kritika Kumari	172	B.Com-II	SAMRIDHI
